.TH CHECKSUM 1 "2025-08-09" "devutils 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
checksum \- calculate checksums for files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B checksum
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIFILE\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B checksum
calculates checksums for files using various algorithms.
If no \fIFILE\fR is specified, read standard input.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-crc32
Calculate CRC32 checksum (default).
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-sum
Calculate BSD sum checksum.
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-adler32
Calculate Adler-32 checksum.
.TP
.BI \-v " FILE" ", \-\-verify " FILE
Verify checksums from \fIFILE\fR (not yet implemented).
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
Don't print filenames, only checksum values.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Output version information and exit.
.SH ALGORITHMS
.TP
.B CRC32
32-bit Cyclic Redundancy Check. Standard CRC-32 used in ZIP files, PNG, etc.
.TP
.B Adler-32
32-bit checksum algorithm used in zlib. Faster than CRC32 but less reliable.
.TP
.B BSD sum
16-bit checksum used by traditional BSD sum command.
.SH EXAMPLES
Calculate CRC32 for files:
.RS
.B checksum file1.txt file2.txt
.RE
.PP
Calculate Adler-32 checksums:
.RS
.B checksum \-a *.bin
.RE
.PP
Calculate checksum from standard input:
.RS
.B echo "hello world" | checksum \-q
.RE
.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
Default format shows checksum and filename:
.RS
a1b2c3d4  file.txt
.RE
.PP
With \-q option, only the checksum is shown:
.RS
a1b2c3d4
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
Success
.TP
1
Error occurred
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR md5sum (1),
.BR sha256sum (1),
.BR cksum (1),
.BR sum (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2025 AnmiTaliDev.
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.