.TH CLOC 1 "2025-08-09" "devutils 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
cloc \- count lines of code with language detection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cloc
[\fIDIRECTORY\fR|\fIFILE\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cloc
counts lines of code in source files, distinguishing between code lines, comment lines, and blank lines. It automatically detects the programming language based on file extensions and content analysis.
.PP
Supported languages include C, C++, Python, Java, Go, Rust, and JavaScript.
.SH OPTIONS
None. The utility automatically processes all supported files in the given directories or analyzes specific files.
.SH EXAMPLES
Analyze all source files in a directory:
.RS
.B cloc src/
.RE
.PP
Analyze specific files:
.RS
.B cloc main.c utils.h
.RE
.PP
Analyze current directory:
.RS
.B cloc .
.RE
.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
The output shows statistics for each language:
.RS
Language     Files     Code  Comments    Blank    Total
------------------------------------------------------
C                3      450       123       67      640
C++              2      234        45       23      302
------------------------------------------------------
Total            5      684       168       90      942
.RE
.SH LANGUAGE DETECTION
.B cloc
uses file extensions and content analysis to detect programming languages:
.TP
.B C
.c, .h files (content-based C/C++ detection for .h files)
.TP
.B C++
.cpp, .hpp, .cc, .hxx, .cxx files
.TP
.B Python
.py, .pyw files
.TP
.B Java
.java files
.TP
.B Go
.go files
.TP
.B Rust
.rs files
.TP
.B JavaScript
.js, .jsx, .mjs files
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
Success
.TP
1
Error occurred
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR countfile (1),
.BR find (1),
.BR wc (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2025 AnmiTaliDev.
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.