.TH DIFF 1 "2025-08-09" "devutils 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
diff \- compare files line by line
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B diff
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFILE1\fR \fIFILE2\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B diff
compares two files line by line and reports the differences.
This is a simplified version of the standard diff utility.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-ignore-case
Ignore case differences when comparing lines.
.TP
.B \-w, \-\-ignore-all-space
Ignore all white space differences.
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-brief
Report only whether files differ, not the details of the differences.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Output version information and exit.
.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
The output uses ed-style difference notation:
.TP
.B NdN
Delete line N from first file.
.TP
.B NaN
Add line N to first file.
.TP
.B NcN
Change line N in first file.
.PP
Lines from the first file are prefixed with "<", lines from the second file with ">".
Changes are separated by "---".
.SH EXAMPLES
Compare two files:
.RS
.B diff file1.txt file2.txt
.RE
.PP
Compare ignoring case:
.RS
.B diff \-i case_sensitive1.txt case_sensitive2.txt
.RE
.PP
Brief comparison (only report if different):
.RS
.B diff \-q old_version.c new_version.c
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
Files are identical
.TP
1
Files differ
.TP
2
Error occurred (file not found, etc.)
.SH LIMITATIONS
This is a simplified diff implementation that:
.IP \(bu 2
Does not support unified diff format
.IP \(bu 2
Does not support context diff format
.IP \(bu 2
Does not support recursive directory comparison
.IP \(bu 2
Uses a simple line-by-line algorithm (not optimal for large changes)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR diff (1),
.BR cmp (1),
.BR comm (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2025 AnmiTaliDev.
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.