.TH HEXDUMP 1 "2025-08-09" "devutils 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
hexdump \- display file contents in hexadecimal format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hexdump
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIFILE\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hexdump
displays the contents of files in various formats, primarily hexadecimal.
If no \fIFILE\fR is specified, read standard input.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-C
Canonical hex+ASCII display. Display offset, hex bytes, and ASCII representation (default).
.TP
.B \-x
One-byte hex display.
.TP
.B \-d
Two-byte decimal display.
.TP
.B \-o
Two-byte octal display.
.TP
.BI \-s " OFFSET"
Skip \fIOFFSET\fR bytes from the beginning of the input.
.TP
.BI \-n " LENGTH"
Interpret only \fILENGTH\fR bytes of input.
.TP
.B \-v
Display all input data (no duplicate line suppression).
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Output version information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
Display a file in canonical format:
.RS
.B hexdump \-C binary_file
.RE
.PP
Skip first 1024 bytes and show next 256 bytes:
.RS
.B hexdump \-s 1024 \-n 256 large_file
.RE
.PP
Display in one-byte hex format:
.RS
.B hexdump \-x data.bin
.RE
.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
The canonical format (\-C) displays:
.RS
00000000  48 65 6c 6c 6f 2c 20 57  6f 72 6c 64 21 0a 00 00  |Hello, World!...|
00000010  ...
.RE
.PP
Where:
.IP \(bu 2
First column: byte offset in hexadecimal
.IP \(bu 2
Middle columns: hexadecimal byte values
.IP \(bu 2
Last column: ASCII representation (non-printable characters shown as '.')
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
Success
.TP
1
Error occurred
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR od (1),
.BR xxd (1),
.BR strings (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2025 AnmiTaliDev.
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.